# BIOMD0000000520: MODEL1306190000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000520.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000520.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Smallbone2013 - Colon Crypt cycle - Version 0

This model is described in the article:

[A mathematical model of the colon crypt capturing compositional dynamic
interactions between cell types](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/\[PMID\])

Kieran Smallbone, Bernard M. Corfe

Int J Exp Pathol. 2014 Feb;95(1):1-7.

Abstract:

Models of the development and early progression of colorectal cancer are based
upon understanding the cycle of stem cell turnover, proliferation,
differentiation and death. Existing crypt compartmental models feature a
linear pathway of cell types, with little regulatory mechanism. Previous work
has shown that there are perturbations in the enteroendocrine cell population
of macroscopically normal crypts, a compartment not included in existing
models. We show that existing models do not adequately recapitulate the
dynamics of cell fate pathways in the crypt. We report the progressive
development, iterative testing and fitting of a developed compartmental model
with additional cell types, and which includes feedback mechanisms and cross-
regulatory mechanisms between cell types. The fitting of the model to existing
data sets suggests a need to invoke cross-talk between cell types as a feature
of colon crypt cycle models.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1306190000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1306190000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


